connect your domain (#12701)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Connect your domain
weight: 3
meta:
    title: Connect your domain
---

> # Connect your domain

Reviewer: I think I'd prefer another term instead of "connect".

Technically, you delegate your domain to Cloudflare's authoritative nameservers. The term "connect" isn't really used in DNS land.

I am aware that this is not all about DNS, but also about proxy features. So what about "Onboarding your domain"?

Reviewer 2: This is to match the new framing of the workflow in the dashboard, and to align with the "connectivity cloud" messaging. In user research on the onboarding flow, I specifically asked about the connect framing and all participants reacted positively ([write-up here](https://wiki.cfdata.org/display/Prod/Zone+Onboarding+Content+Evaluation)).

> This guide reviews the concepts behind connecting your domain using Cloudflare as an Authoritative DNS provider.

Reviewer: Same comment about "connecting" here.

Reviewer 2: I think the intro of the doc should be more broadly "Connecting your domain to Cloudflare" and what that entails, with DNS being a foundational piece. Then under a DNS section is where we bring in the "making CF your authoritative DNS provider" language and explain that DNS is foundational to the "connection."

So it would flow like this:
Intro
- value of connecting your domain to CF/that it's necessary to use our app services
- link to what is CF
Get started
- DNS setup
--- explain how DNS is foundational to app services offerings
--- most common setup is full/authoritative, but link to other setups
- Domain configuration
- Domain activation
--- Avoiding downtime 
- What to do next (related resources)
Key concepts (maybe we move these to the Concepts section, and just link to them from a quick summary on this page?)
- How CF handles DNS queries
- How CF proxies your traffic
--- Proxy eligibility
--- Proxied example
--- DNS-only example

## Get started

> To get started with Cloudflare as a [reverse proxy](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/reverse-proxy/), you must first create an account and connect your domain. After creating your account, select `Add site` and follow the [step-by-step tutorial](/fundamentals/setup/account-setup/add-site/) to configure your [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/), which informs Cloudflare where to forward requests.

Reviewer: ```
which informs Cloudflare where to forward requests.
```
This is only true for proxied DNS records and also only for HTTP requests (some folks refer to DNS queries as requests, too, that's why I'm saying this).

On the DNS side, we always only just respond to DNS queries no matter the proxy status. If proxied, we respond with Cloudflare anycast IPs, if grey-clouded, we respond with origin IP/hostname. I feel like this central concept should be more baked into everywhere we talk about proxying.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with Cloudflare as a [reverse proxy](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/reverse-proxy/), you must first create an account and connect your domain. 

After creating your account, select `Add site` and follow the [step-by-step tutorial](/fundamentals/setup/account-setup/add-site/) to:

1. Select a free or paid plan, which determines which Cloudflare services will apply to your proxied traffic once your domain is active
2. Set up [DNS] (/dns/). This process varies depending on the [DNS setup]((/dns/zone-setups) you choose:

- Full setup (most common): Import all DNS records
- Secondary DNS setup (Enterprise only): Set up incoming zone transfers from your primary DNS provider
- Partial (CNAME) setup (Business and Enterprise only): Import the individual DNS records you want to proxy

3. Activate your domain to start proxying HTTP/S traffic

- Full setup (most common): Change the nameservers of your domain, and wait up to 24 hours for your registrar to process the change
- Secondary DNS setup (Enterprise only): Complete the initial incoming zone transfer from your primary DNS provider
- Partial (CNAME) setup (Business and Enterprise only): Add a verification TXT record at your primary DNS provider

```

For a domain purchased through [Cloudflare Registrar](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/registrar/), we take care of the connection process on your behalf.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Your domain is always in your control - completing these steps does not mean that you are relinquishing ownership. After connecting your domain, you may [transfer registration](/registrar/get-started/transfer-domain-to-cloudflare/) to be managed at Cloudflare, but you will still remain the owner.
{{</Aside>}}

## Default configurations

When you connect your domain to Cloudflare, it is assigned a set of default configurations for our [application services](/products/?product-group=Application+performance%2CApplication+security%2CCloudflare+essentials), based on the domain [plan](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/). These services determine how Cloudflare treats traffic for your domain.

> Your configurations only affect live traffic when the domain status is active and your traffic is [proxied](#proxy-eligibility). 

Reviewer: ```
(...) and your traffic is proxied.
```
Might be useful to add a bit more here. Something like
```
By enabling the proxy status on the DNS records for the hostnames you want to proxy through Cloudflare's network.
```
I don't know, probably phrase it differently, my point is again to ensure what "proxying traffic" means.

Reviewer 2: +1, think this should link either to /dns/proxied-records (with some added context there on the basics of proxying) or it should link to the Proxying traffic anchor on this page (and move the proxy eligibility section under that)

> Some services can be set at the account-level, which affect all domains under your account, such as the [Web Application Firewall (WAF)](/waf/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some services can be set at the account-level (if available in your domain plan), which affect all domains under your account, such as the [Web Application Firewall (WAF)](/waf/). 
```

Use the Cloudflare dashboard or [API](/api/) to modify, test, or [version](/version-management/) your configuration.

{{<Aside>}}
Account-level configurations are processed before domain-level services. Refer to [Traffic sequence](https://blog.cloudflare.com/traffic-sequence-which-product-runs-first) to learn more. 
{{</Aside>}}

## Proxy eligibility 

> Proxy eligibility is based on whether the record serves `HTTP` or `HTTPS` traffic. By default, `A`, `AAAA`, and `CNAME` DNS records that serve `HTTP/S` traffic are proxied.

Reviewer: ```
(...) that serve `HTTP/S` traffic are proxied.
```
I know the default proxy status is proxied for these record types, but we should maybe phrase this like
```
(...) that serve `HTTP/S` traffic can be proxied.
```

The following types of DNS records may be in your DNS configuration, but cannot be proxied:

- `CAA`
- `DKIM`
- `DMARC`
- `DS`, `DNSKEY`
- `MX`
- `NS`
- `PTR`
- `SOA`
- `SPF`
- `SRV`
- `SVCB`, `HTTPS`
- `TXT`

## How Cloudflare handles DNS queries

In a [full setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/), when you connect your domain to Cloudflare, we become your authoritative DNS provider. When Cloudflare receives a DNS query for your domain, our response is determined by the configuration set in your DNS table, including the value of the record, the record's proxy eligibility and it's proxy status. 

> Most importantly, if a records proxy is enabled, Cloudflare will respond with an [anycast IP address](/fundamentals/concepts/cloudflare-ip-addresses/), **not** the value defined in your DNS table. This approach informs DNS recursors that the incoming request should route to Cloudflare's network. In contrast, when a DNS record is 'DNS only', meaning the proxy is off, Cloudflare responds with the value defined in your DNS table, which might be the DNS record's actual IP address, or CNAME record. 

Reviewer: ```
Most importantly, if the proxy status for a record is enabled,
```

```
This approach informs DNS recursors that the incoming HTTP request should (...)
```
But actually it informs the end device, the recursor has no idea what an anycast IP means and that that lead to HTTP traffic being proxied, they just stupidly resolve records.
```
(...) the DNS record's actual IP address, or CNAME target. 
```
not sure if `CNAME target` is much better, but it should indicate that it's about the value of a CNAME record and not the record itself. Maybe `the DNS record's actual content, e.g. an IP address or a hostname`.

| `A` | `blog` | `192.0.2.1` | `Proxy enabled` | `Auto` | `Edit` | 
| `A` | `shop` | `192.0.2.2` | `DNS only` | `Auto` | `Edit` | 

In the table above, there are two subdomain records, one with the proxy enabled, `blog`, and one without, `shop`.

### Proxy enabled example

When the browser initiates a `HTTP/S` request to `blog.example.com`, a DNS resolver will convert the hostname into an IP address. Since the records proxy function is enabled, Cloudflare will return an anycast IP address. Then, the browser initiates a `HTTP/S` request to Cloudflare. When Cloudflare receives this request, it performs a lookup to find the matching domain and account configuration and processes the request according to them. Cloudflare forwards it to the configured origin server, which is `192.0.2.1`.

### DNS-only example

When the browser initiates a `HTTP/S` request to `shop.example.com`, a DNS resolver will convert the hostname into an IP address. Since the records proxy function is `DNS only`, Cloudflare will simply return `192.0.2.2`. Then the browser initiates a `HTTP/S` request to the server hosted at `192.0.2.2`.

## Activating your domain

> In a full setup, your domain will be pending until you update its nameservers at your domain registrar with the assigned Cloudflare nameservers. This step is essential for two reasons. First, to inform DNS resolvers that your traffic should route through Cloudflare and second, to verify that you own the domain. Only the owner or administrator of a domain has access to its registrar and the ability to change the domains nameservers.

Reviewer: ```
First, to inform DNS resolvers where they can get a response for DNS queries for your domain (...)
```

```
to change the domain's nameservers.
```

{{<Aside>}}
Note: The activation process involves different steps if you are using a [secondary DNS](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/) or [partial (CNAME) setup](/dns/zone-setups/partial-setup/).
{{</Aside>}}

> Registrars take up to 24 hours to process nameserver changes (quicker in most cases). You will receive an email when your domain becomes active. While your domain is pending, your `HTTP/S` traffic is not live, but Cloudflare will respond to DNS queries on your assigned nameservers.

Reviewer: ```
While your domain is pending, your `HTTP/S` traffic is not proxied through Cloudflare (...)
```
In fact we will ignore the proxy status and respond with origin IPs/hostnames for all A/AAAA/CNAME records.

Author: @hannes-cf, only A/AAAA/CNAME records? We will not respond to any other DNS record type?

## Avoiding downtime

In a full setup, it is essential that your domains DNS table has all of your DNS records configured properly before activating your domain. In addition, you may need to:

> - [Disable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/). DNSSEC is a security extension that ensures all DNS answers can be trusted. If nameservers are changed before disabling DNSSEC, their cryptographic signatures will no longer match and DNS resolution will fail. After your domain is successfully activated, you should enable DNSSEC again. 

Reviewer: There is a way to onboard without having to disable DNSSEC: https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/dnssec/dnssec-active-migration/

Author: roger - will update

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Connect your domain

> meta:
>     title: Connect your domain

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---

# Connect your domain

> Many of our layer 7 services depend on your domain using Cloudflare as a [reverse proxy](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/reverse-proxy/) for its `HTTP/S` traffic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Many of our layer 7 services depend on your domain using Cloudflare as a [reverse proxy](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/reverse-proxy/) for its `HTTP/HTTPS` traffic.
```

> To get started with Cloudflare as a reverse proxy, you must first create an account and [connect your domain](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/). After creating your account, select `Add site` and follow the [step-by-step tutorial](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/add-site/) to configure your [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/), which informs Cloudflare where to forward requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To get started with Cloudflare as a reverse proxy, you must first create an account and [connect your domain](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/). After creating your account, select **Add site** and follow the [step-by-step tutorial](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/add-site/) to configure your [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/), which informs Cloudflare where to forward requests.
```

Your domain is always in your control - connecting your domain to Cloudflare does not mean that you are relinquishing ownership. If you decide to [transfer your domain registration](/registrar/get-started/transfer-domain-to-cloudflare/) to be managed at Cloudflare, you will still retain full ownership.

{{<Aside type="note">}}
For a domain purchased through [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), we take care of the connection process on your behalf.
{{</Aside>}}

## Domain configurations

When you connect your domain to Cloudflare, a set of default configurations is generated for our [application services](/products/?product-group=Application+performance%2CApplication+security%2CCloudflare+essentials), based on the domain [plan](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/). These services determine how Cloudflare treats traffic for your domain.

> Your configurations will only affect live traffic (i.e., when your domain's status is [**active**](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/#activating-your-domain) and its traffic is [**proxied**](#proxy-eligibility)). Notably, your configurations can be altered prior to activating or enabling the proxy status on the DNS records for the hostnames you want to proxy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your configurations will only affect live traffic (that is, when your domain's status is [**active**](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/#activating-your-domain) and its traffic is [**proxied**](#proxy-eligibility)). Notably, your configurations can be altered prior to activating or enabling the proxy status on the DNS records for the hostnames you want to proxy.
```

Use the Cloudflare dashboard or [API](/api/) to modify, test, or [version](/version-management/) your configuration.

> {{<Aside header="Account-level configurations">}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note" header="Account-level configurations">}}
```

> Some configurations can be set at the account-level (if available in your plan), which are applied to all domains under your account, such as the [Web Application Firewall (WAF)](/waf/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some configurations can be set at the account-level (if available in your plan), which can be applied to all domains under your account. 
```

> Account-level configurations are processed before domain-level services. Refer to [Traffic sequence](https://blog.cloudflare.com/traffic-sequence-which-product-runs-first) to learn more. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Account-level configurations are applied to incoming traffic before your domain-level configurations. Refer to [traffic sequence](https://blog.cloudflare.com/traffic-sequence-which-product-runs-first) to learn more. 
```

{{</Aside>}}

## Activating your domain

In a [full setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/), your domain will be pending until you update its nameservers at your domain registrar with the assigned Cloudflare nameservers. This step is essential for two reasons:

> 1. First, to inform DNS resolvers that your traffic should route through Cloudflare
> 2. And second, to verify that you are the domain's owner. Only the owner or administrator of a domain can access  its registrar and change its nameservers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- First, to inform DNS resolvers that your traffic should route through Cloudflare
- And second, to verify that you are the domain's owner. Only the owner or administrator of a domain can access  its registrar and change its nameservers.
```

Reviewer 3: I think it's better to remove the numbers, since these are not a sequence of steps the customer has to perform

> 2. And second, to verify that you are the domains owner. Only the owner or administrator of a domain can access  its registrar and change its nameservers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. And second, to verify that you are the domain's owner. Only the owner or administrator of a domain can access  its registrar and change its nameservers.
```

> {{<Aside>}}
> 
> Note: The activation process involves different steps if you are using a [secondary DNS](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/) or [partial (CNAME) setup](/dns/zone-setups/partial-setup/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}

The activation process involves different steps if you are using a [secondary DNS](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/) or [partial (CNAME) setup](/dns/zone-setups/partial-setup/).
```

{{</Aside>}}

> Registrars take up to 24 hours to process nameserver changes (quicker in most cases). You will receive an email when your domain becomes active. While your domain is pending, your `HTTP/S` traffic is not live, but Cloudflare will respond to DNS queries on your assigned nameservers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registrars take up to 24 hours to process nameserver changes (quicker in most cases). You will receive an email when your domain becomes active. While your domain is pending, your `HTTP/S` traffic is not proxying through Cloudflare, but Cloudflare will respond to DNS queries on your assigned nameservers.
```

> Registrars take up to 24 hours to process nameserver changes (quicker in most cases). You will receive an email when your domain becomes active. While your domain is pending, your `HTTP/S` traffic is not proxying through Cloudflare, but Cloudflare will respond to DNS queries on your assigned nameservers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Registrars take up to 24 hours to process nameserver changes (quicker in most cases). You will receive an email when your domain becomes active. While your domain is pending, your `HTTP/HTTPS` traffic is not proxied through Cloudflare, but Cloudflare will respond to DNS queries on your assigned nameservers.
```

> By activating your domain in full mode, your traffic will immediately start using [Cloudflare's DNS services](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#how-cloudflare-handles-dns-queries), so it's important to review how to [avoid downtime](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/#avoiding-downtime) and what [proxying traffic](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#proxying-traffic) means. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By activating your domain on a full setup, your traffic will immediately start using [Cloudflare's DNS services](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#how-cloudflare-handles-dns-queries), so it's important to review how to [avoid downtime](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/#avoiding-downtime) and what [proxying traffic](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#proxying-traffic) means. 
```

> By activating your domain on a full setup, your traffic will immediately start using [Cloudflare's DNS services](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#how-cloudflare-handles-dns-queries), so it's important to review how to [avoid downtime](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/#avoiding-downtime) and what [proxying traffic](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#proxying-traffic) means. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By activating your domain on a full setup, your traffic will immediately start using [Cloudflare's DNS services](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#how-cloudflare-handles-dns-queries), so it is important to review how to [avoid downtime](/fundamentals/setup/manage-domains/connect-your-domain/#avoiding-downtime) and what [proxying traffic](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#proxying-traffic) means. 
```

## Avoiding downtime

In a full setup, it is essential that your domains DNS table has all your DNS records configured properly *before* activating your domain. In addition, you may need to:

- [Disable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/). DNSSEC is a security extension that ensures all DNS answers can be trusted. If nameservers are changed before disabling DNSSEC, their cryptographic signatures will no longer match and DNS resolution will fail. After your domain is successfully activated, you should enable DNSSEC again. 
- [Accept Cloudflare traffic](/fundamentals/concepts/cloudflare-ip-addresses/). If you are proxying traffic to your origin, you need to ensure that your origin will accept connections from Cloudflare. One way to do this is to allow traffic originating from Cloudflare IPs. You can harden the connection between Cloudflare and your origin by using Authenticated Origin Pulls ([mTLS](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/)). An alternative approach to proxy traffic to your origin is to [configure a Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/).

> - [Configure SSL/TLS](/ssl/edge-certificates/). The first thing Cloudflare does when it receives a `HTTP/S` request is decryption.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Configure SSL/TLS](/ssl/edge-certificates/). The first thing Cloudflare does when it receives a `HTTP/HTTPS` request is decryption.
```
